Introduction
The Zoho Calendar API provides you with REST APIs required to customize features of the calendar depending on your requirements with the accessibility being limited to a secure connection. Using the API, you can also integrate the calendar in your system and modify it having Zoho Calendar architecture as the base.

To start developing using the Calendar API, you need to set up a Zoho account. After you are done with the initial set up, an access key should be generated using OAuth 2.0 authentication to get onboard with the Calendar API. 

API is RESTful
The Calendar API follows the REST methodology to communicate between two applications in a safe and secure manner. Communication in REST is done through HTTP requests like GET, PUT, POST and DELETE which is used to view/modify the calendar and calendar-related objects. 

The base URL for the Zoho Calendar API is:

https://calendar.zoho.com/api/v1

When trying to access the API, certain things should be followed for best results:

All requests to the API must be done only over HTTPS. Considering security, HTTPS servers ensure privacy for the users working with the API.
HTTP requests involve GET - fetch a resource, PUT - update a resource, POST - create a resource and DELETE - remove a resource. 
Response bodies support XML and JSONObjects.
API can be accessed through Calendar Client Library available for various programming languages.
Response codes are generated by HTTP to indicate API errors.
Calendar API supports Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for accessing API securely from client-side web application. Always make sure that you never expose your API credentials in the client-side code.

Calendars API
The Calendars API is used to perform actions on a particular calendar or a list of calendars. Using the Calendars API, you can make changes to an existing calendar or add/delete calendars. Each calendar is identified using a unique ID.

Based on the permission and the origin, Calendars are categorized as:

My Calendars: These are personal calendars that are created and managed only by you.

App Calendars: Calendars that are subscribed from other applications like Zoho CRM, Google Calendar etc.

Group Calendars: Calendars that are created for groups within the organization. 

Other Calendars: Any other calendar available in public to be added is listed under Other Calendars. Eg. Holiday calendars, Shared calendars, Subscribed public calendars, Birthday calendars.

The /calendar/* endpoint is used to make changes to your calendars. The list of methods that are supported by the Calendar are GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.

Methods:
GET - Get calendar list
Gets the list of all calendars.

GET - Get calendar details
Gets the information of a particular calendar.

POST - Create new calendar
Creates a new calendar.

PUT - Update calendar
Updates an existing calendar.

DELETE - Delete calendar
Deletes an existing calendar.

Events API
An event is a planned activity that is scheduled to happen at a specific time at a particular place. Every event created on the calendar is identified using a unique ID. There are different types of events: events that happen only once and events that are repetitive, happening during definite time intervals. Every event can last from a few minutes, to hours and as many days as possible. An event has an organizer who sends out invites to multiple attendees who in turn register their response through RSVP.

The /event/* endpoint is used to make any changes to the events. The methods that are supported by the calendar for the "Event" category are GET, POST, PUT and DELETE. 

Methods:
GET - Get events list
Gets the list of all the events that are scheduled for a particular calendar of the user.

GET - Get event details
Gets the details of a particular event in a specific calendar of the user.

GET - Get attachment details
Gets the details of the file attached to an event in a specific calendar of the user.

GET - Get group attendees details
Gets the details of event attendees in a specific calendar of the user.

POST - Create new event
Adds a new event to the user's calendar.

POST - Attach file
Attaches a file to an event in the user's calendar.

PUT - Update event
Updates an existing event in a user's calendar.

MOVE - Move event
Move an event from one calendar to another.

DELETE - Delete event
Deletes an event from the user's calendar.

DELETE - Delete attachment
Deletes attachment from an event in the user's calendar.

PUT - Update an Event
Purpose
This API is used to update the details of an existing event in a user’s calendar. The update operation replaces the entire event resource, overwriting all existing fields with the values provided in the request.

Request URL
https://calendar.zoho.com/api/v1/calendars/<calendar_uid>/events/<event_uid>

OAuth Scope
scope=ZohoCalendar.event.ALL

(or)

scope=ZohoCalendar.event.UPDATE

scope=ZohoMeeting.meeting.ALL (Needs to be added while adding meetings to the event)

ALL - Grants full access to events.

UPDATE - Grants permission to update events.

Path Parameters
calendar_uid string, mandatory
This parameter represents the unique identifier for the calendar where the event exists.
event_uid string, mandatory
This parameter represents the unique identifier for the event to be updated.
Query Parameters
eventdata JSONObject, mandatory
This JSON object is passed to update the data of a particular event in the calendar using the following keys and values.

Input JSON keys:
title string
Specifies the title of the event to be updated.

dateandtime JSONObject, mandatory
Send JSON Object of the start time, end time in Unix time format along with the time zone information, in case, different from the current user time zone.

start string, mandatory
Specifies the start date and time of the event. Use the following formats:

For a specific time: yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' in GMT format (e.g., 20241028T103000Z).
For an all-day event: yyyyMMdd (e.g., 20241028).
end string, mandatory
Specifies the end date and time of the event. Use the following formats:

For a specific time: yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' in GMT format (e.g., 20241028T103000Z).
For an all-day event: yyyyMMdd (e.g., 20241028).
timezone string
Mention the timezone in which the event is being created.

convertToEventTZ boolean 
Indicates whether the event's original timezone should be maintained. Allowed values: true|false

true - If true, the event's original timezone will be used.
false
isallday boolean
Specifies whether the event is an all-day event or not. Allowed values: true|false

true - If true, use all-day event format in dateandtime JSONobject.
false
isprivate boolean
Specifies whether the event is private or not. Allowed values: true | false

true - When true, the event details are hidden from others, even if the calendar is public or shared, except for users with delegate permissions.
false - The event is public.
url string
Specifies the URL details that need to be shared for the event, along with the description, if any. Example: "https://mail.zoho.com"

recurrence_edittype string
This parameter is used to specify how repeat events should be edited. It defines whether changes apply to a single occurrence, future occurrences, or all occurrences of a recurring event.
Allowed values: following | only | all
following - Edits the selected occurrence and all future occurrences of a recurring event.
only - Edits only the selected occurrence of a recurring event.
all -Edits all occurrences of the recurring event, both past and future.
The default value is "all" (If the value of recurrence_edittype parameter is not mentioned while editing a recurring event, all occurrences will be edited).
location string
Specifies the location details for the event. Maximum length- 255 characters.

description string
Specifies the description of the event, to provide more details about the event to the attendees. Maximum length- 10000 characters.

richtext_description string
This parameter is used to provide a rich-text formatted description for the event. If the description includes formatting (e.g., bold, italic, links), it should be provided in richtext_description. Maximum length- 12000 characters. Note: Either description or richtext_description should be sent in the API request, but not both. If both fields are sent, there is a risk of one overwriting the other.

color string
Specifies the hex-color for the event. Use this to set a specific color for the event that differs from the default color. Example- #E574B0

attendees JSONArray
This parameter is used to include the attendee details for the event.
Example: "attendees": [{"email":"user1@domain.com", "permission":"1"},{"email":"user2@domain.com","permission":"1"}]
This JSON Array includes the below parameters as JSONObject:
email string, mandatory
Specifies the email id of the attendee.
zid long
Specifies the zuid of the attendee.
permission integer
Specifies the attendee's permission for the event.
Allowed values : 0 | 1 | 2 | 3
0 - Guest
1 - View
2 - Invite
3 - Edit
attendance integer
Specifies the attendance of the attendee.
Allowed values : 0 |1 | 2
0- Non-participant
1- Required participant
2 - Optional participant
status string
This parameter is used to update the attendance status of an attendee for an event.
Allowed values: NEEDS-ACTION | ACCEPTED | DECLINED | TENTATIVE
Note :

Each attendee's details have to be mentioned as a separate JSONObject.

group_attendees JSONArray
This parameter is used if group is added as attendee.
Example: "group_attendees":[{"zid":"123565"}]
This JSONArray includes the below parameters as JSONObject:
zid long, mandatory
Specifies the zuid of the group.
isrep boolean
This parameter specifies whether the event is repeating or a one-time occurrence.
Allowed values: true | false
true - The event repeats based on rrule parameter.
false - The event is a one-time occurrence. The rrule parameter must not be used when the isrep parameter value is set to false.
If isrep is false, the event will not repeat, and any recurrence-related parameters should be excluded.
recurrenceid string
Used to identify and modify a specific instance (and optionally following instances) of a recurring event.
Use the following formats:
For timed events: yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z'
Example: 20240104T114100Z (represents January 4, 2024, at 11:41:00 GMT).
For all-day events: yyyyMMdd (if the parent event is all day event)
Example: 20240104 (represents January 4, 2024).
reminders JSONArray
Specifies the type of reminders to be set for the event.
Example: "reminders":[{"action": "email", "minutes": 30}, {"action": "popup", "minutes": 15}]
This JSONArray includes the below parameters as JSONObject:
action string
Specifies the reminder type.
Allowed values: email | popup | notification.
minutes integer, mandatory
Specifies the time before the event (in minutes) when the reminder will trigger.
etag long, mandatory 
This parameter is a unique identifier or version tag assigned to an event, which changes whenever the event is created or modified. Always send the latest etag value when updating an event.
This parameter can be retrieved from Get event details API.
Note :

The etag can be provided either in the request header or within the eventdata (in the JSON Object). If included in the eventdata, it doesn't need to be sent as a header.

calendar_alarm boolean
Specifies whether to enable a calendar alarm for the event.
Allowed values: true | false
true - Enables a calendar alarm for the event.
false - Disables the calendar alarm.
notify_attendee integer
Used to notify the attendees of the event.
Allowed values : 0 | 1 | 2
0- None.
1- Notify attendees only.
2- Notify both attendees and myself.
attach JSONObject
This parameter allows files to be attached to an event by including their unique file IDs in a comma-separated format.
This JSONObject has the below parameters:
fileId string
Specifies the file(s) to be attached to the event. Multiple file IDs should be separated by commas.
The file IDs correspond to files previously uploaded and retrievable through the Get Attachment API.
rmAttachId string
This parameter is used to remove one or more attachments from an event. It accepts a comma-separated list of file IDs, specifying the attachments to be removed.
transparency integer
Specifies whether the event should be added to the free/busy schedule.
Allowed values : 0 | 1
0 - Add to free/busy schedule.
1 - Don't add to your free/busy schedule. The grid will be shown as free even if events are present at that time.
conference string
Specifies the conference option to be associated with the event.
Allowed values : zmeeting | none
To remove the conference, set the value of conference to "none".
notifyType integer
Specifies the notification type for the event. Currently, only the default notification type is supported.
Allowed values : 1
1 - Default Notification
allowForwarding boolean
Specifies whether the attendees are allowed to forward the event or not.
Allowed values: true | false
true - The attendees are allowed to forward the event.
false - The attendees are not allowed to forward the event.
rrule string
This parameter is used to create repeat/recurring events.
Allowed values : 
FREQ string
Specifies the frequency of the recurrence.
Allowed values: DAILY | WEEKLY | MONTHLY | YEARLY
INTERVAL integer
Specifies the interval between each occurrence.
For example:
INTERVAL = 1 - Event occurs everyday.
INTERVAL = 2 - Event occurs every 2 days.
Default value is 1.
COUNT integer
Specifies the number of times the event occurs.
BYDAY string
Specifies the days of the week on which the event occurs.
Used when FREQ is WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or YEARLY.
Example : 
In Monthly and Yearly Events: 4FR (indicating the fourth Friday).The first number defines which weekday in the month: possible values are 1 (first), 2 (second), 3 (third), 4 (fourth), and -1 (last). The two-letter code represents the day of the week: possible values are MO (Monday), TU (Tuesday), WE (Wednesday), TH (Thursday), FR (Friday), SA (Saturday), and SU (Sunday).
In Daily Events: Possible values depend on the weekdays set in the settings (e.g., MO, TU, WE, TH, FR, SA, SU).
In Weekly Events: Possible values are MO, TU, WE, TH, FR, SA, SU
UNTIL string
Specifies the end date of the recurrence.
Use yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' in GMT format or yyyyMMdd for all-day events.
Example: UNTIL=20250818T094500Z means the event repeats until 18 Aug 2025.
BYSETPOS integer
Specifies the occurrence of the week in a month or year.
Used when FREQ is MONTHLY or YEARLY.
Possible values are: 1 - First, 2 - Second, 3 - Third, 4 - Fourth, -1 - Last.
For example, 1MO for the first Monday, -1MO for the last Monday.
BYMONTHDAY integer
Specifies the day of the month.
Used when FREQ is MONTHLY or YEARLY.
Values range from 1 to 31.
BYMONTH integer
Specifies the month of the year.
Used when FREQ is YEARLY.
Values range from 1 (January) to 12 (December).
Example:
For daily recurring event :
"FREQ=DAILY;COUNT=5;INTERVAL=1" (Every day for 5 occurrences.)
"FREQ=DAILY;INTERVAL=1;BYDAY=MO,TU,WE,TH,FR;COUNT=5" (Every weekday for 5 occurrences.)
For weekly recurring event:
"FREQ=WEEKLY;INTERVAL=1;BYDAY=MO,TU;UNTIL=20250817T064600Z" (Every week on Monday,Tuesday Until 17 Aug 2025.)
For monthly recurring event:
"FREQ=MONTHLY;INTERVAL=1;BYMONTHDAY=17" (On the 17th day of every month.)
"FREQ=MONTHLY;INTERVAL=1;BYDAY=TU;BYSETPOS=-1;COUNT=2" (Last Tuesday of every month for 2 occurrences.)
For yearly recurring event:
"FREQ=YEARLY;INTERVAL=1;BYDAY=MO;BYSETPOS=3;BYMONTH=7" (Every third Monday of July each year.)
"FREQ=YEARLY;INTERVAL=1;BYMONTH=7;BYMONTHDAY=17;COUNT=1" (On July 17 every year, for 1 occurrence.)
repeat JSON Array(Use either rrule or repeat parameter to update repeat/recurring events)
This parameter is used to update repeat events.This JSONArray includes below parameters as JSONObject:

Allowed values : 
freq string
Specifies the frequency of the recurrence.
Allowed values: DAILY | WEEKLY | MONTHLY | YEARLY
interval integer
Specifies the interval between each occurrence.
For example:
interval = 1 - Event occurs everyday.
interval = 2 - Event occurs every 2 days.
count integer
Specifies the number of times the event occurs.
byday string
Specifies the days of the week on which the event occurs.
Used when FREQ is WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or YEARLY.
Example : 
In Monthly and Yearly Events: 4FR (indicating the fourth Friday).The first number defines which weekday in the month: possible values are 1 (first), 2 (second), 3 (third), 4 (fourth), and -1 (last). The two-letter code represents the day of the week: possible values are MO (Monday), TU (Tuesday), WE (Wednesday), TH (Thursday), FR (Friday), SA (Saturday), and SU (Sunday).
In Daily Events: Possible values depend on the weekdays set in the settings (e.g., MO, TU, WE, TH, FR, SA, SU).
In Weekly Events: Possible values are MO, TU, WE, TH, FR, SA, SU
until string
Specifies the end date of the recurrence.
Use yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' in GMT format or yyyyMMdd for all-day events.
Example: UNTIL=20250818T094500Z means the event repeats until 18 Aug 2025.
bymonthday integer
Specifies the day of the month.
Used when freq is MONTHLY or YEARLY.
Values range from 1 to 31.
bymonth integer
Specifies the month of the year.
Used when freq is YEARLY.
Values range from 1 (January) to 12 (December).
Examples:

For daily recurring event :
"repeat": [{"freq": "daily", "interval": "1", "count": 5}] (Every day for 5 occurrences)
"repeat": [{"freq": "daily", "byday": "MO,TU,WE,TH,FR", "count": 5}] (Every weekday for 5 occurrences)
For weekly recurring event:
"repeat": [{"freq": "weekly", "interval": "1", "byday": "MO,TU", "until": "20241121T040000"}] (Every week on Monday and Tuesday until November 21, 2024)
For monthly recurring event:
"repeat": [{"freq": "monthly", "interval": "1", "bymonthday": 27}] (On the 27th day of every month)
"repeat": [{"freq": "monthly", "byday": "-1TU", "interval": "1", "count": 2}] (Last Tuesday of every month, for 2 occurrences)
For yearly recurring event:
"repeat": [{"freq": "yearly", "interval": "1", "bymonth": 11, "bymonthday": 29, "count": "1"}] (On November 29 every year, for 1 occurrence)
"repeat": [{"freq": "yearly", "byday": "3FR", "bymonth": 11}] (Every third Friday of November each year)
 

Note:

The following parameters are mandatory when editing an event: dateandtime and etag.
When adding a recurring break event, the recurrenceid must be included with the eventdata JSON Object in the ICS Format: yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' for timed events in GMT format, or yyyyMMdd (if the parent event is a all-day event).
When editing a recurring break event, the recurrenceid must be included with the eventdata JSON Object in ICS format: yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss'Z' for timed events in GMT format, or yyyyMMdd (if the parent event is a all-day event). Additionally, the recurrence_edittype should be specified to indicate the desired edit operation (only, all, or following) for regular recurring events. If not specified, the default value is "all". 
Note: The recurrence_edittype parameter is not required when creating or editing a recurring break event.
Sample Request
https://calendar.zoho.com/api/v1/calendars/l9WWZCf_SJWcr3uIuBOq5g==/events/fb6ac0a3cc0a42fc95020c18b58a6ac9@zoho.com?
eventdata=
{
 "uid":"fb6ac0a3cc0a42fc95020c18b58a6ac9@zoho.com",
 "dateandtime":{
  "timezone":"Europe/Vienna",
  "start":"20170624T050000%2B0200",
  "end":"20170624T053000%2B0200"
 },
 "title":"Test Invitation",
 "attendees":[
  {
   "email":"rebecca@zylker.com",
   "status":"NEEDS-ACTION"
  }
 ],
"group_attendees" : [ {"zid" : zid}],
"attach":{
    "rmAttachId":"494398000000009015"
}
 "rrule":"FREQ=DAILY;COUNT=5;INTERVAL=1",
 "description":" This is a test description",
"etag":1500551311825
}
Header:
etag - 1500551311825
Sample Response
{
 "events":[
  {
   "enable_eventmanagement":false,
   "role":"organizer",
   "calid":"1657000000002003",
   "title":"Test Invitation",
   "calendar_alarm":false,
   "duration":1800000,
   "uid":"fb6ac0a3cc0a42fc95020c18b58a6ac9@zoho.com",
   "rrule":"FREQ=DAILY;COUNT=5;INTERVAL=1",
   "createdby":"paula@zylker.com",
   "repeat":[
    {
     "count":5,
     "freq":"daily",
     "interval":1,
     "until":"20170628T030000Z"
    }
   ],
   "end":"20170624T053000",
   "dateandtime":{
    "timezone":"Europe/Vienna",
    "start":"20170624T050000+0200",
    "end":"20170624T053000+0200"
   },
   "lastmodifiedtime":"20170720T114920Z",
   "isprivate":false,
   "attendees":[
    {
     "email":"rebecca@zylker.com",
     "status":"NEEDS-ACTION"
    },
    {
     "email":"paula@zylker.com",
     "status":"ACCEPTED"
    }
   ],
   "start":"20170624T050000",
   "createdtime":"20170720T11Z",
   "organizer":"paula@zylker.com",
   "isallday":false,
   "modifiedby":"paula@zylker.com",
   "etag":1500551360550,
   "multiday":false,
   "caluid":"l9WWZCf_SJWcr3uIuBOq5g=="
  }
 ]
}